High I want to talk about using parameter defaults.
And very often with function parameters we use none as a default.
And then that allows us to determine if the user specified an argument for that parameter or not.
Because if the parameter value inside the function is none then we say OK the user doesn't specify an
actual value for that parameter but there's a potential issue because what happens if we need to differentiate
between the following.
The argument wasn't provided at all.
So in other words we're using our current system we'd say well if it's none.
But what if we wanted to differentiate that the user actually passed a non value for the argument.
Well we don't have a way of differentiating those two things.
We can tell if there is a non non-value we can tell if the value is none.
But if the value is none we can't tell the difference between it was just the default or it was actually
passed in as an argument.
So let's try this function.
Let's try this validate function and or take a single parameter with a default of none.
And then we'll say if 8 is not none will print that the argument was provided else.
In other words we don't have a is none will say print argument
was not provided.
OK.
So now if we use this function you'll see what the problem is.
Let's say that I call validate with nothing and it says The argument was not provided.
Which is correct if we call validate we have some value tells us the argument was provided.
But what happens if I do this validate and I actually pass in.
None right.
I could also pass it in as a keyword argument if I wanted to.
But even this way it doesn't matter.
It tells me that the argument was not provided.
And of course just to verify.
The same thing happens if I pass it as a keyword argument.
So that's a problem we now can no longer differentiate between.
It was passed in as none.
Or it wasn't passed in and sometimes we may want to be able to do that.
So how could we approach that situation.
Well we can use what's called a sentinel value.
So it's set up a sentinel value and we have to make it something that's maybe very unlikely that the
user is going to pass in.
But what is it going to be what is an unlikely value.
Well you know sometimes you'll see people will use maybe minus nine nine nine or they'll say something
like you know this is the default value.
You know something like that.
Well this is an empty default value you know.
And then you can test for that in your code.
But that's always going to be a problem because you'll never know the user could actually pass in that
string or that sentinel value to the argument in which case that logic would break down.
So that's not the safest way to do it.
The Sentinel is certainly a good approach but using a fixed value of some kind is dangerous.
So what can we do.
Well you have to remember what happens when we create objects we get IDs we have memory IDs and if we
create two different objects even though they're the same type we are going to have two different memory
addresses.
So what I mean by this is let's say I create this object and I'm going to use the generic object that
we have in Python.
I can look at the idea and I have a of memory address.
Now I can go ahead and create another instance of Object and our user may be doing that somewhere else
here I'm just doing it in the same you know model it doesn't matter.
But the idea of B will not be the same and there is no way for me to create another object and that
memory specific memory address.
The only way that I can get back to this memory address is by referencing the memory address that a
is referencing.
So if a user is calling a function and we've used this object here as long as they have no way of getting
their hands on this will be safe.
So that's the basic idea.
So we're going to create an instance of the Object class because that's guaranteed to result in the
object that a user cannot pass to us.
They have no way of getting their hands on that object.
At least they can.
They always can of course but they have to actually really work hard to do that.
And so therefore they'll be wanting to do that very specifically.
It's not going to be an accidental mistake.
So let's go ahead and create a variable in our global scope.
I am going to call it underscore Sentinel ingenues they underscore that if somebody sees this they'll
understand this is supposed to be a private variable
so we'll create that Sentinel object and know what I'm going to do is I'm going to take this code over
here.
So I'm going to change it to be the default center.
And now of course I'm not checking if is not None.
I am going to check to say that A is not the Sentinel.
So if is not the central That means that the argument was provided otherwise it wasn't provided.
And let's see how that now changes what's happening here.
Vakil validate without any arguments.
We get that the argument was not provided by call it with some value.
It tells me the argument was provided and here's the differentiating thing if I called with none.
Now I get the same result that the argument was provided and that's exactly what I was looking for.
So this involved having to really set up the sentinel value in the model so we can actually achieve
the same results without having to create our sentinel object outside of the function we can put it
directly inside the function.
Of course we're going to need to be able to get our hands on what that specific object is.
Right.
We cannot do something like that.
Let me show you.
If you try and do something like that as a equals object.
And then if A is not object then the an argument was provided.
Let's see what happens if we do something like this.
Now if I say validate with let's say 10.
The argument was provided.
If I say validate you have none it says The argument was provided and if I validate not passing anything
else it says The argument was provided.
Why.
Because this object instance and this object instance are not the same.
So we can try this approach over here.
The only difference is how we recover what the default is for a what this value is we need to be able
to get a hold of that and we can do that by using a special dictionary that the function has.
So we look at the Dunder defaults and we've seen the full dictionary when we were looking at named tables
and setting up the full values for named tables.
But here in this instance I have a single element.
And so the default is going to be the first element in the default dictionary.
So my default for a is simply that over here and now I can go ahead and test it this way.
So if it's not the fault of the argument was provided.
So now let's see what happens.
We can validate with a value that's fine.
We can validate with nothing that's fine the argument was not provided and we can validate passing in
none in which case we get correctly that the argument was provided.
Now we can expand this finally to be with multiple parameters and key word only parameters as well.
Let's try it out.
Let's say validate and a is going to be the default of object B is going to be again a default of object.
Now you'll realize that these two objects are not going to be the same because they're instantiated
separately so they will not be the same.
Then I'm going to make some keyword only argument.
And I'm also going to make it with a default of object.
So now I've got free variables in here and I need to retrieve the defaults.
These memory addresses essentially of each of these three objects that were specified as default because
remember they get created when the function is created.
So now in the when the function is running I need to be able to get a handle on those objects.
So let's go ahead positionally are straightforward.
We are just going to retrieve them by position position unless we retrieve them by position.
So they will be a 0 and B will be at position 1.
Now what about the keyword.
Well the default for the keyword we can actually get from a different dictionary called the KW defaults.
So we got this dictionary here.
And I just pass in the name of the keyword argument that I want to retrieve the default for.
So this is how I would get all three objects and obviously these are not going to be the same values.
In fact if you want we can from inside here we can print default A is default B and then we can also
print default.
B is default.
KW So we'll have a function print that out.
And now we have the same logic we had before.
For each of our arguments.
So now if a is not default a we can do the same thing with B.
So I'm just cutting and pasting
pro-se argument a was provided argument a was not provided argument B was provided argument B was not
provided.
And then we could of course do the same thing with KW as well.
So now that we have that we can just simply call a function so we may say validate 100 200 KW equals
none.
So you'll notice I'm actually passing in the keyword only argument.
So first of all a print statement is false in both cases so that's what exactly what we expected.
This object is not the same as this object and it's not the same as this object.
So we may remove the print statements.
We don't need them now.
Rerun that and as we can see argument was provided.
B was provided and the keyword argument was provided.
If we call validate let's say we miss out we say maybe B equals 200 and kw equals non.
Then we'll see that was not provided.
B was provided KW was provided.
If we do it this way then obviously a was provided and B was not provided.
And if we don't specify KW we'll see that the type of right that KW was not provided either.
So this is a safe way of setting up defaults for parameters and functions where you want to be able
to differentiate between of value was provided including none.
Or it wasn't provided at all.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.